commit 67990608c8b95d2b8ccc29932376ae73d5818727
Merge: c17488d06666 a889f766dbb7
Author: Linus Torvalds <torvalds@linux-foundation.org>
Date:   Tue Jan 12 20:25:09 2016 -0800

    Merge tag 'pm+acpi-4.5-rc1-1' of git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/rafael/linux-pm
    
    Pull oower management and ACPI updates from Rafael Wysocki:
     "As far as the number of commits goes, ACPICA takes the lead this time,
      followed by cpufreq and the device properties framework changes.
    
      The most significant new feature is the debugfs-based interface to the
      ACPICA's AML debugger added in the previous cycle and a new user space
      tool for accessing it.
    
      On the cpufreq front, the core is updated to handle governors more
      efficiently, particularly on systems where a single cpufreq policy
      object is shared between multiple CPUs, and there are quite a few
      changes in drivers (intel_pstate, cpufreq-dt etc).
    
      The device properties framework is updated to handle built-in (ie
      included in the kernel itself) device properties better, among other
      things by adding a fallback mechanism that will allow drivers to
      provide default properties to be used in case the plaform firmware
      doesn't provide the properties expected by them.
    
      The Operating Performance Points (OPP) framework gets new DT bindings
      and debugfs support.
    
      A new cpufreq driver for ST platforms is added and the ACPI driver for
      AMD SoCs will now support the APM X-Gene ACPI I2C device.
    
      The rest is mostly fixes and cleanups all over.
    
      Specifics:
    
       - Add a debugfs-based interface for interacting with the ACPICA's AML
         debugger introduced in the previous cycle and a new user space tool
         for that, fix some bugs related to the AML debugger and clean up
         the code in question (Lv Zheng, Dan Carpenter, Colin Ian King,
         Markus Elfring).
    
       - Update ACPICA to upstream revision 20151218 including a number of
         fixes and cleanups in the ACPICA core (Bob Moore, Lv Zheng, Labbe
         Corentin, Prarit Bhargava, Colin Ian King, David E Box, Rafael
         Wysocki).
    
         In particular, the previously added erroneous support for the _SUB
         object is dropped, the concatenate operator will support all ACPI
         objects now, the Debug Object handling is improved, the SuperName
         handling of parameters being control methods is fixed, the
         ObjectType operator handling is updated to follow ACPI 5.0A and the
         handling of CondRefOf and RefOf is updated accordingly, module-
         level code will be executed after loading each ACPI table now
         (instead of being run once after all tables containing AML have
         been loaded), the Operation Region handlers management is updated
         to fix some reported problems and a the ACPICA code in the kernel
         is more in line with the upstream now.
    
       - Update the ACPI backlight driver to provide information on whether
         or not it will generate key-presses for brightness change hotkeys
         and update some platform drivers (dell-wmi, thinkpad_acpi) to use
         that information to avoid sending double key-events to users pace
         for these, add new ACPI backlight quirks (Hans de Goede, Aaron Lu,
         Adrien Schildknecht).
    
       - Improve the ACPI handling of interrupt GPIOs (Christophe Ricard).
    
       - Fix the handling of the list of device IDs of device objects found
         in the ACPI namespace and add a helper for checking if there is a
         device object for a given device ID (Lukas Wunner).
    
       - Change the logic in the ACPI namespace scanning code to create
         struct acpi_device objects for all ACPI device objects found in the
         namespace even if _STA fails for them which helps to avoid device
         enumeration problems on Microsoft Surface 3 (Aaron Lu).
    
       - Add support for the APM X-Gene ACPI I2C device to the ACPI driver
         for AMD SoCs (Loc Ho).
    
       - Fix the long-standing issue with the DMA controller on Intel SoCs
         where ACPI tables have no power management support for the DMA
         controller itself, but it can be powered off automatically when the
         last (other) device on the SoC is powered off via ACPI and clean up
         the ACPI driver for Intel SoCs (acpi-lpss) after previous attempts
         to fix that problem (Andy Shevchenko).
    
       - Assorted ACPI fixes and cleanups (Andy Lutomirski, Colin Ian King,
         Javier Martinez Canillas, Ken Xue, Mathias Krause, Rafael Wysocki,
         Sinan Kaya).
    
       - Update the device properties framework for better handling of
         built-in properties, add support for built-in properties to the
         platform bus type, update the MFD subsystem's handling of device
         properties and add support for passing default configuration data
         as device properties to the intel-lpss MFD drivers, convert the
         designware I2C driver to use the unified device properties API and
         add a fallback mechanism for using default built-in properties if
         the platform firmware fails to provide the properties as expected
         by drivers (Andy Shevchenko, Mika Westerberg, Heikki Krogerus,
         Andrew Morton).
    
       - Add new Device Tree bindings to the Operating Performance Points
         (OPP) framework and update the exynos4412 DT binding accordingly,
         introduce debugfs support for the OPP framework (Viresh Kumar,
         Bartlomiej Zolnierkiewicz).
    
       - Migrate the mt8173 cpufreq driver to the new OPP bindings (Pi-Cheng
         Chen).
    
       - Update the cpufreq core to make the handling of governors more
         efficient, especially on systems where policy objects are shared
         between multiple CPUs (Viresh Kumar, Rafael Wysocki).
    
       - Fix cpufreq governor handling on configurations with
         CONFIG_HZ_PERIODIC set (Chen Yu).
    
       - Clean up the cpufreq core code related to the boost sysfs knob
         support and update the ACPI cpufreq driver accordingly (Rafael
         Wysocki).
    
       - Add a new cpufreq driver for ST platforms and corresponding Device
         Tree bindings (Lee Jones).
    
       - Update the intel_pstate driver to allow the P-state selection
         algorithm used by it to depend on the CPU ID of the processor it is
         running on, make it use a special P-state selection algorithm (with
         an IO wait time compensation tweak) on Atom CPUs based on the
         Airmont and Silvermont cores so as to reduce their energy
         consumption and improve intel_pstate documentation (Philippe
         Longepe, Srinivas Pandruvada).
    
       - Update the cpufreq-dt driver to support registering cooling devices
         that use the (P * V^2 * f) dynamic power draw formula where V is
         the voltage, f is the frequency and P is a constant coefficient
         provided by Device Tree and update the arm_big_little cpufreq
         driver to use that support (Punit Agrawal).
    
       - Assorted cpufreq driver (cpufreq-dt, qoriq, pcc-cpufreq,
         blackfin-cpufreq) updates (Andrzej Hajda, Hongtao Jia, Jacob
         Tanenbaum, Markus Elfring).
    
       - cpuidle core tweaks related to polling and measured_us calculation
         (Rik van Riel).
    
       - Removal of modularity from a few cpuidle drivers (clps711x, ux500,
         exynos) that cannot be built as modules in practice (Paul
         Gortmaker).
    
       - PM core update to prevent devices from being probed during system
         suspend/resume which is generally problematic and may lead to
         inconsistent behavior (Grygorii Strashko).
    
       - Assorted updates of the PM core and related code (Julia Lawall,
         Manuel Pégourié-Gonnard, Maruthi Bayyavarapu, Rafael Wysocki, Ulf
         Hansson).
    
       - PNP bus type updates (Christophe Le Roy, Heiner Kallweit).
    
       - PCI PM code cleanups (Jarkko Nikula, Julia Lawall).
    
       - cpupower tool updates (Jacob Tanenbaum, Thomas Renninger)"
    
    * tag 'pm+acpi-4.5-rc1-1' of git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/rafael/linux-pm: (177 commits)
      PM / clk: don't leave clocks enabled when driver not bound
      i2c: dw: Add APM X-Gene ACPI I2C device support
      ACPI / APD: Add APM X-Gene ACPI I2C device support
      ACPI / LPSS: change 'does not have' to 'has' in comment
      Revert "dmaengine: dw: platform: provide platform data for Intel"
      dmaengine: dw: return immediately from IRQ when DMA isn't in use
      dmaengine: dw: platform: power on device on shutdown
      ACPI / LPSS: override power state for LPSS DMA device
      PM / OPP: Use snprintf() instead of sprintf()
      Documentation: cpufreq: intel_pstate: enhance documentation
      ACPI, PCI, irq: remove redundant check for null string pointer
      ACPI / video: driver must be registered before checking for keypresses
      cpufreq-dt: fix handling regulator_get_voltage() result
      cpufreq: governor: Fix negative idle_time when configured with CONFIG_HZ_PERIODIC
      PM / sleep: Add support for read-only sysfs attributes
      ACPI: Fix white space in a structure definition
      ACPI / SBS: fix inconsistent indenting inside if statement
      PNP: respect PNP_DRIVER_RES_DO_NOT_CHANGE when detaching
      ACPI / PNP: constify device IDs
      ACPI / PCI: Simplify acpi_penalize_isa_irq()
      ...

